IBX-10688: SiteAccess-aware Raptor connector configuration documented in Dev-doc (#3101)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/recommendations/raptor_integration/connector_configuration.md

> ---

Reviewer: Should we document the non-siteaccess-aware settings?

I mean: https://github.com/ibexa/connector-raptor/blob/main/src/bundle/DependencyInjection/Configuration.php#L21

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think we should also document the non-siteaccess-aware settings like strict_exceptions, since they affect global behavior (e.g. exception handling in tracking) and are not covered by siteaccess config.

> description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of SiteAccess-aware Raptor connector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of SiteAccess-aware Raptor connector.
month_change: true
```
Edit: I removed `edition: lts-update`

> description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of SiteAccess-aware Raptor connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of the Raptor connector.
```

---

## Configuration

To configure Raptor connector, use the ibexa.system.<scope>.connector_raptor configuration key:

```yaml
# config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml:

ibexa:
    system:
        <scope>:
            connector_raptor:
                enabled:              true
                customer_id:          ~ # Required
                tracking_type:        client # One of: "client" or "server"

                # Raptor Recommendations API key
                recommendations_api_key: ~ # Required

                # Raptor Recommendations API URL, optional, set by default
                recommendations_api_url: '%ibexa.connector.raptor.recommendations.api_url%'
```

- `enabled` - enables or disables the Connector for a given scope, default value: `true`. If set to `false`, no tracking or recommendation requests are executed.
- `customer_id` - an identifier used to authenticate requests to the Recommendation Engine. This value is can be found as `Account number` in [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/).
- `tracking_type` - defines how user events are sent to the tracking API. Possible values:

>     - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser using JavaScript snippets generated by Twig functions and included in templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.

Reviewer 3: A link to #3105 and #3110 functions would be nice.
I think those two PRs should share a common page introducing both functions that could be added to https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/templating/twig_function_reference/twig_function_reference/ and here.

Author: Will be updated while creating feature-branch

>     - `server` - tracking is handled on the backend, with events sent directly to the tracking API. It's not affected by ad blockers.

Reviewer 3: About ad blockers, it seems that this is not a side remark but the goal. Maybe:
```suggestion
    - `server` - tracking is handled on the backend, with events sent directly to the tracking API, so, it's not affected by ad blockers.
```

Author: This change is not needed.

>     - `server` - tracking is handled on the backend, with events sent directly to the tracking API. It's not affected by ad blockers.

Reviewer: Is it possible to use both types of tracking at the same time, or would that be an overkill? Is there a reason to use client tracking at all, if it can get blocked by ad-blockers, what advantages does it provide?

Would be nice to have somewhere (not necessarily here) this info

Reviewer 2: Both tracking types are mutually exclusive — you can configure either client or server, not both at the same time.
As for client-side tracking — despite being blockable, it has some advantages: it doesn’t add server load, works asynchronously (no impact on response times), and captures events directly in the browser context.
I agree it would be useful to document these trade-offs somewhere.

- `recommendations_api_key` - an API key used to authenticate requests to the Recommendations API. This key allows the Connector to retrieve personalized recommendations from the Recommendation Engine. This value can be found as `API key` in Raptor Control Panel.
- `recommendations_api_url` (optional) - overrides the default Raptor SaaS address, should be left unset unless a custom endpoint is required.

## Customer ID

> To find the value for the `customer_id` identifier, log in to Raptor Control Panel, and look for "Account number":

Reviewer: It would be best if this was part of the Raptor help center to which we could just link - this way it would stay up to date with potential UI changes, here we risk that we fail to track Raptor UI changes and update it in time.

Let's discuss moving this part to the Help Center if possible - these sections are short, so it's not critical, but would be nice to keep the boundaries between the products.

A. In the top-left corner, above the account name, you can find the account number for the currently active account.
B. Click the arrow icon in the top-left corner to expand the window. There you can see a list of all your accounts, with their numbers shown in the “Account number” column on the right (if you have multiple accounts, you can easily locate and copy the number of any of your accounts, not just the active one).

![Account number](account_number.png)

> ## Recommendations API key

Reviewer: Same here - to avoid the risk of this getting outdated, it should be part of the Help Center (official Raptor doc)

> To find the value for the `recommendations_api_key`, log in to Raptor Control Panel, and look for "API key".

Reviewer 3: As this is a new section, maybe have this precious link again:
```suggestion
To find the value for the `recommendations_api_key`, log in to [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/), and look for "API key".
```

Author: Link is already in line 28. No need to repeat

---
description: Step-by-step configuration procedure of the Raptor connector.

> ---

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
month_change: true
---
```

> # Installation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Configure Raptor connector
```

> First, install the Raptor connector.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before you can proceed to configuring the integration with Raptor, install the connector.
```

To do it, run the following command:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-raptor
```

# SiteAccess-aware configuration

> To configure Raptor connector, use the `ibexa.system.<scope>.connector_raptor` configuration key in the `config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml` file:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To configure the Raptor connector, use the `ibexa.system.<scope>.connector_raptor` configuration key in the `config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml` file:
```

``` yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/config/packages/ibexa_connector_raptor.yaml', 1, 14) =]]
```

> - `enabled` - enables or disables the Connector for a given scope, default value: `true`. If set to `false`, no tracking or recommendation requests are executed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `enabled` - enables or disables the connector for a given scope, default value: `true`. If set to `false`, no tracking or recommendation requests are executed.
```

> - `customer_id` - an identifier used to authenticate requests to the Recommendation Engine. This value can be found as `Account number` in [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/).

Reviewer 4: Does "Recommendation Engine" deserve capitalisation?

```suggestion
- `customer_id` - an identifier used to authenticate requests to the recommendation engine. You can find this value as "Account number" in [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/).
```

- `tracking_type` - defines how user events are sent to the tracking API. Default value: `client`. Possible values:

>     - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser using JavaScript snippets generated by Twig functions and included in templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - `client` - tracking is executed in the browser by using JavaScript snippets generated by Twig functions and included in templates. This approach may be blocked by ad blockers.
```

Author: not needed

    - `server` - tracking is handled on the backend, with events sent directly to the tracking API. It's not affected by ad blockers.

> - `recommendations_api_key` - an API key used to authenticate requests to the Recommendations API. This key allows the Connector to retrieve personalized recommendations from the Recommendation Engine. This value can be found as `API key` in Raptor Control Panel.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `recommendations_api_key` - an API key used to authenticate requests to the Recommendations API. Allows the Connector to retrieve personalized recommendations from the Recommendation Engine. You can find this value as "API key" in Raptor Control Panel.
```

> - `recommendations_api_url` (optional) - overrides the default Raptor address, should be left unset unless a custom endpoint is required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `recommendations_api_url` (optional) - overrides the default Raptor address. Do not set unless a custom endpoint is required.
```

By default, `tracking_type` is set to `client` because client-side tracking is the standard Raptor mode.
To understand the differences between client and server tracking types, including their advantages and disadvantages, refer to the [Raptor documentation](https://content.raptorservices.com/help-center/client-side-vs.-server-side-tracking).

!!! note

    Only one tracking mode can be enabled at a time.
    Client-side and server-side tracking cannot be used together.

## Customer ID

To find the value for the `customer_id` identifier, log in to Raptor Control Panel, and look for "Account number":

A. In the top-left corner, above the account name, you can find the account number for the currently active account.

> B. Click the arrow icon in the top-left corner to expand the window. There you can see a list of all your accounts, with their numbers shown in the “Account number” column on the right (if you have multiple accounts, you can easily locate and copy the number of any of your accounts, not just the active one).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
B. Click the arrow icon in the top-left corner to expand the window. There you can see a list of all your accounts, with their numbers shown in the “Account number” column on the right. This way, if you have multiple accounts, you can locate and copy the number of any of your accounts, not just the active one.
```

![Account number](account_number.png)

## Recommendations API key

To find the value for the `recommendations_api_key`, log in to Raptor Control Panel, and look for "API key".
To do it, in the left panel, open the **Recommendations** section, and select **Website**.
Next, click on the Web module you’re interested in.
In the top-right corner, click the three-dot icon and select **API information**.
A new window appears, where you can find the "API key" value.

> Click on the **Show API information** and copy the value.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Click **Show API information** and copy the value.
```
